Update events.md (#202)
SFML/SFML-Website: pages/tutorials/3.0/window/events.md

        std::cout << "system: " << keyPressed->system << std::endl;
        std::cout << "description: " << sf::Keyboard::getDescription(keyPressed->scancode).toAnsiString() << std::endl;
        std::cout << "localize: " << static_cast<int>(sf::Keyboard::localize(keyPressed->scancode)) << std::endl;
        std::cout << "delocalize: " << static_cast<int>(sf::Keyboard::delocalize(keyPressed->code)) << std::endl;
    }
}
```

!!! note

    Note that some keys have a special meaning for the operating system, and will lead to unexpected behavior.
    An example is the F10 key on Windows, which "steals" the focus, or the F12 key which starts the debugger when using Visual Studio.

## The MouseWheelScrolled event

The `sf::Event::MouseWheelScrolled` event is triggered when a mouse wheel moves up or down, but also laterally if the mouse supports it.

The data associated with this event contains the number of ticks the wheel has moved, what the orientation of the wheel is and the current position of the mouse cursor.

```cpp
if (const auto* mouseWheelScrolled = event->getIf<sf::Event::MouseWheelScrolled>())
{
    switch (mouseWheelScrolled->wheel)
    {

>     }

Reviewer: Looks like some coding artifact sneaked in here

## Introduction

This tutorial is a detailed list of window events.
It describes them, and shows how to (and how not to) use them.

## The sf::Event type

> SFML uses `std::variant` under the hood to implement a type-safe API for events.

Reviewer: This should IMHO not be the opening statement of the event tutorial. People land here because they want to understand how to use the API, if they wanted to know the implementation, they'd go to GitHub 😄

There are two main ways to use this API.

> Check out the EventHandling example program to see these methods in practice.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For a comprehensive example of both approaches, check out the [EventHandling example program](https://github.com/SFML/SFML/tree/master/examples/event_handling "EventHandling example on GitHub"].
```

### `sf::Event::getIf<T>`

> The first option is based around `sf::Event::getIf<T>` and `sf::Event::is<T>`.
> `getIf<T>` works by providing a template parameter which must be an event subtype.
> Event subtypes are types like `sf::Event::Resized` or `sf::Event::MouseMoved`.
> If the template argument matches the active event subtype then a pointer to the data is returned.
> If that template argument is not the active event subtype then `nullptr` is returned.
> `sf::Event::is<T>` more simply returns `true` if `T` matches the active event subtype.
> `is<T>` is often used for subtypes like `sf::Event::Closed` which contain no data.
> Here's what that looks like:

Reviewer: I find the text rather hard to follow. Even though I know the new API, I had to re-read the fourth line three times before I understood everything.

What do you think of the following approach?

```suggestion
The first option is based around `sf::Event`'s member functions `getIf<T>` and `is<T>`.
The template type `T` is an event subtype, such as `sf::Event::Resized` or `sf::Event::MouseMoved`.

`getIf<T>` returns a pointer to the subtype specific event data, if the provided template type matches the active event subtype, otherwise `nullptr` is returned.

`is<T>` returns `true` if the provided template type matches the active event subtype, `false` otherwise.
This is especially useful for subtypes like `sf::Event::Closed` which contain no data.
Here's what that looks like:
```

```cpp
while (window.isOpen())
{
    while (const std::optional event = window.pollEvent())
    {
        if (event->is<sf::Event::Closed>())
        {
            window.close();
        }
        else if (const auto* keyPressed = event->getIf<sf::Event::KeyPressed>())
        {
            if (keyPressed->scancode == sf::Keyboard::Scancode::Escape)
                window.close();
        }
    }

>     // Remainder of main loop

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    // Rest of the main loop
```

}
```

Note how the API for getting events has changed slightly.

> `sf::WindowBase::pollEvent` and `sf::WindowBase::waitEvent` now return a `std::optional<sf::Event>`.

Reviewer: I think this should be at the topic, similar to how it was before. It makes sense to me, that we first show how to get events and then explain what you can do with them.

These two functions _might_ return an event but they might not.
C++ lets you deduce the template parameter which is why you can write `const std::optional event` instead of `const std::optional<sf::Event> event`.

> `const auto event` is another valid choice if you prefer a more terse expression.

Reviewer: I'd opt for "simple English" terms.
```suggestion
`const auto event` is another valid choice if you prefer a shorter expression.
```

### `sf::WindowBase::handleEvents`

The second option for processing events is via the `sf::WindowBase::handleEvents` function.
This functions performs event visitation.

> What this means is that you can provide callbacks which take different event subtypes as arguments.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
What this means is that you can provide lambdas or other callbacks which take different event subtypes as arguments.
```

Alternatively you may provide an object (or objects) with `operator()` implementations which handle the event subtypes you want to process.

> Notably you do not have to provide callbacks for all possible event subtypes.
> Depending on the current active event subtype, the corresponding callback is called.
> Here's what that looks like:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Depending on the current active event subtype, the corresponding callback is called.

!!! note

    You do not have to provide callbacks for all possible event subtypes.

Here's what that looks like:
```

```cpp
const auto onClose = [&window](const sf::Event::Closed&)
{
    window.close();
};

const auto onKeyPressed = [&window](const sf::Event::KeyPresssed& keyPressed)
{
    if (keyPressed.scancode == sf::Keyboard::Scancode::Escape)
        window.close();
};

while (window.isOpen())
{
    window.handleEvents(onClose, onKeyPressed);

>     // Remainder of main loop

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    // Rest of the main loop
```

}
```

## The Closed event

The `sf::Event::Closed` event is triggered when the user wants to close the window through any of the possible methods the window manager provides ("close" button, keyboard shortcut, etc.).

> This event only represents a close request.
> The window is not yet closed when the event is received.

Reviewer: I feel like those two sentences only make sense when they're fully connected.

```suggestion
This event only represents a close request, meaning the window is not yet closed when the event is received.
```

Typically, one will just call `window.close()` in reaction to this event to actually close the window.

> However, you may also want to do something else first like saving the current application state or asking the user what to do.

Reviewer: I trust your comma skills, but to me there's a clear pause here... 😅 

```suggestion
However, you may also want to do something else first, like saving the current application state or asking the user what to do.
```

Author: Commas tend to represent a pause in one's speech but they're not defined as such. In this case I don't think the comma is correct. It may exist in a grey area where it's not necessarily correct nor incorrect to use it. English is a bit of a fuzzy language.

Reviewer: Grammarly has a special rule for "such as", which one could use in place of "like".

![image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/2e965a37-48bb-4a9e-a18a-6286efdd6e3e)

Given that this a nonrestrictive clause, it would require a comma.

> English is a bit of a fuzzy language.

From a German perspective, that's a bit of an understatement. 😄  
The German language has a central and detailed grammatical definition of basically everything. Where English has countless different definitions.

If you don't do anything, the window remains open.

> There's no data associated with this event.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There's no event data associated with this event.
```

```cpp
if (event->is<sf::Event::Closed>())
    window.close();
```

## The Resized event

The `sf::Event::Resized` event is triggered when the window is resized, either through user action or programmatically by calling `window.setSize`.
You can use this event to adjust the rendering settings: the viewport if you use OpenGL directly, or the current view if you use sfml-graphics.

> There's no data associated with this event.

Reviewer: Yes there is 😄 

```suggestion
The member associated with this event is `event.size`, it contains the new size of the window.
```

```cpp
if (event->is<sf::Event::Resized>())
{
    std::cout << "new width: " << event.size.width << std::endl;
    std::cout << "new height: " << event.size.height << std::endl;

> }

Reviewer: Needs to be changed

```

## The FocusLost and FocusGained events

The `sf::Event::FocusLost` and `sf::Event::FocusGained` events are triggered when the window loses/gains focus, which happens when the user switches the currently active window.
When the window is out of focus, it doesn't receive keyboard events.
This event can be used e.g. if you want to pause your game when the window is inactive.

> There's no data associated with this event.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There's no event data associated with this event.
```

Author: Are you sure? It feels awkward to repeat the word `event` twice.

Reviewer: Data is such a generic word, that I struggle with it, when it's not more explicitly defined.
It could be some random data attached to the event, or it could be data specifically related to the given event.
That's why I feel "event data" makes it clearer what kind of data we're talking about here.

```cpp
if (event->is<sf::Event::FocusLost>())
    myGame.pause();

if (event->is<sf::Event::FocusGained>())
    myGame.resume();
```

## The TextEntered event

The `sf::Event::TextEntered` event is triggered when a character is typed.
This must not be confused with the `KeyPressed` event.
`TextEntered` interprets the user input and produces the appropriate printable character.
For example, pressing '^' then 'e' on a French keyboard will produce two `KeyPressed` events, but a single `TextEntered` event containing the 'ê' character.
It works with all the input methods provided by the operating system, even the most specific or complex ones.

This event is typically used to catch user input in a text field.

> You can either put this data directly in a [`sf::String`](https://www.sfml-dev.org/documentation/3.0.0/classsf_1_1String.php "sf::String documentation"), or cast it to a `char` after making sure that it is in the ASCII range (0 - 127).

Reviewer: We can't just drop the most important information, i.e. how to access the data and that it's an Unicode value.

```suggestion
The member associated with this event is `textEntered.text`, it contains the Unicode value of the entered character.
You can either put this data directly in a [`sf::String`](https://www.sfml-dev.org/documentation/3.0.0/classsf_1_1String.php "sf::String documentation"), or cast it to a `char` after making sure that it is in the ASCII range (0 - 127).
```

```cpp
if (const auto* textEntered = event->getIf<sf::Event::TextEntered>())
{
    if (textEntered->unicode < 128)
        std::cout << "ASCII character typed: " << static_cast<char>(textEntered->unicode) << std::endl;
}
```

Note that since they are part of the Unicode standard, some non-printable characters such as _backspace_ are generated by this event.
In most cases you'll need to filter them out.

> Many programmers use the `KeyPressed` event to get user input and start to implement crazy algorithms that try to interpret all the possible key combinations to produce correct characters.
> Don't do that!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
!!! warning

    Many programmers use the `KeyPressed` event to get user input and start to implement crazy algorithms that try to interpret all the possible key combinations to produce correct characters.
    Don't do that!
```

## The KeyPressed and KeyReleased events

The `sf::Event::KeyPressed` and `sf::Event::KeyReleased` events are triggered when a keyboard key is pressed/released.

> If a key is held, multiple `KeyPressed` events will be generated, at the default operating system delay (ie. the same delay that applies when you hold a letter in a text editor).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If a key is held, multiple `KeyPressed` events will be generated, at the default operating system delay (i.e. the same delay that applies when you hold a letter in a text editor).
```

```cpp
if (const auto* keyPressed = event->getIf<sf::Event::KeyPressed>())
{
    if (keyPressed->scancode == sf::Keyboard::Scan::Escape)
    {
        std::cout << "the escape key was pressed" << std::endl;
        std::cout << "scancode: " << static_cast<int>(keyPressed->scancode) << std::endl;
        std::cout << "code: " << static_cast<int>(keyPressed->code) << std::endl;
        std::cout << "control: " << keyPressed->control << std::endl;
        std::cout << "alt: " << keyPressed->alt << std::endl;
        std::cout << "shift: " << keyPressed->shift << std::endl;
        std::cout << "system: " << keyPressed->system << std::endl;
        std::cout << "description: " << sf::Keyboard::getDescription(keyPressed->scancode).toAnsiString() << std::endl;
        std::cout << "localize: " << static_cast<int>(sf::Keyboard::localize(keyPressed->scancode)) << std::endl;
        std::cout << "delocalize: " << static_cast<int>(sf::Keyboard::delocalize(keyPressed->code)) << std::endl;
    }
}
```

> Note that some keys have a special meaning for the operating system, and will lead to unexpected behavior.
> An example is the F10 key on Windows, which "steals" the focus, or the F12 key which starts the debugger when using Visual Studio.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
!!! note

    Note that some keys have a special meaning for the operating system, and will lead to unexpected behavior.
    An example is the F10 key on Windows, which "steals" the focus, or the F12 key which starts the debugger when using Visual Studio.
```

    std::cout << "wheel movement: " << mouseWheelScrolled->delta << std::endl;
    std::cout << "mouse x: " << mouseWheelScrolled->position.x << std::endl;
    std::cout << "mouse y: " << mouseWheelScrolled->position.y << std::endl;
}
```

## The MouseButtonPressed and MouseButtonReleased events

The `sf::Event::MouseButtonPressed` and `sf::Event::MouseButtonReleased` events are triggered when a mouse button is pressed/released.
SFML supports 5 mouse buttons: left, right, middle (wheel), extra #1 and extra #2 (side buttons).

The data associated with these events contains the code of the pressed/released button, as well as the current position of the mouse cursor.

```cpp
if (const auto* mouseButtonPressed = event->getIf<sf::Event::MouseButtonPressed>())
{
    if (mouseButtonPressed->button == sf::Mouse::Button::Right)
    {
        std::cout << "the right button was pressed" << std::endl;
        std::cout << "mouse x: " << mouseButtonPressed->position.x << std::endl;
        std::cout << "mouse y: " << mouseButtonPressed->position.y << std::endl;
    }
}
```

## The MouseMoved event

The `sf::Event::MouseMoved` event is triggered when the mouse moves within the window.

> This event is triggered even if the window isn't focused.

Reviewer: I think it's okay to repeat it:

```suggestion
The `sf::Event::MouseMoved` is triggered even if the window isn't focused.
```

> This event is triggered even if the window isn't focused.
> However, it is triggered only when the mouse moves within the inner area of the window, not when it moves over the title bar or borders.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

!!! note

    This event is triggered even if the window isn't focused, but only when the mouse moves within the inner area of the window, not when it moves over the title bar or window borders.
```

The data associated with this event contains the current position of the mouse cursor relative to the window.

```cpp
if (const auto* mouseMoved = event->getIf<sf::Event::MouseMoved>())
{
    std::cout << "new mouse x: " << mouseMoved->position.x << std::endl;
    std::cout << "new mouse y: " << mouseMoved->position.y << std::endl;
}
```

## The MouseMovedRaw event

The `sf::Event::MouseMovedRaw` event is triggered when the mouse moved within the window even if the mouse is moved a distance too small to perceive.

> While the MouseMoved position value is dependent on the screen resolution, raw data is not.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
While the `sf::Event::MouseMoved` position value is dependent on the screen resolution, the raw data of this event is not.
```

Reviewer: I feel like this description isn't enough. We now just know what it is not, but we still don't know, what the data *is*.

> If the physical mouse is moved too little to cause the screen cursor to move at least a single pixel, no MouseMoved event will be generated.

Reviewer: I think this needs to be moved up to `MouseMoved`

```suggestion
If the physical mouse isn't moved enough to cause the cursor on the screen to move at least a single pixel, no `MouseMoved` event will be generated.
```

In contrast, any movement information generated by the mouse independent of its sensor resolution will always generate a `MouseMovedRaw` event.

The data associated with this event contains the change in position of the mouse cursor relative to the window.

```cpp
if (const auto* mouseMovedRaw = event->getIf<sf::Event::MouseMovedRaw>())
{
    std::cout << "new mouse x: " << mouseMoved->delta.x << std::endl;
    std::cout << "new mouse y: " << mouseMoved->delta.y << std::endl;
}
```

> Currently, raw mouse input events will only be generated on Windows and Linux.

Reviewer: I guess this could either be a `!!! warning` or `!!! note`. Maybe we need to come up with a clearer definition when to use what.

    std::cout << "new mouse x: " << mouseMoved->delta.x << std::endl;
    std::cout << "new mouse y: " << mouseMoved->delta.y << std::endl;
}
```

Currently, raw mouse input events will only be generated on Windows and Linux.

## The MouseEntered and MouseLeft event

The `sf::Event::MouseEntered` and `sf::Event::MouseLeft` events are triggered when the mouse cursor enters/leaves the window.

There's no member associated with these events in the [`sf::Event`](https://www.sfml-dev.org/documentation/3.0.0/classsf_1_1Event.php "sf::Event documentation") union.
There's no data associated with these events.

```cpp
if (event.type == sf::Event::MouseEntered)
if (event->is<sf::Event::MouseEntered>())
    std::cout << "the mouse cursor has entered the window" << std::endl;

if (event.type == sf::Event::MouseLeft)
if (event->is<sf::Event::MouseLeft>())
    std::cout << "the mouse cursor has left the window" << std::endl;
```

## The JoystickButtonPressed and JoystickButtonReleased events

The `sf::Event::JoystickButtonPressed` and `sf::Event::JoystickButtonReleased` events are triggered when a joystick button is pressed/released.

> 

Reviewer: I think this makes sense as a new paragraph.

> SFML supports up to 8 joysticks and 32 buttons.

Reviewer: I think this makes sense as a new paragraph.

Author: It felt a bit awkward to have 3 sentences in a row all on their own paragraphs. Felt like we were adding whitespace for no good reason. I'll restore that newline though.
